---
title: What I did over summer vacation
slug: summer-2020
summary:
date: 2020-09-01
---

I've setup all my milestones as GitHub milestones on the main project repository.

I then used GanttLab to generate gantt charts for my [proposal](/capstone-proposal.pdf). I still had to do some manual work to bring them into InDesign for the proposal, but it made the whole process a bit more efficient. Also, I tend to use GitHub issues for project management already, so it fit into my workflow well.

## Pre Capstone Milestone

I put together a milestone of tasks to complete before the capstone course started and named it [Pre Capstone Milestone](https://github.com/DesignSystemsEngineer/designsystemsengineer.github.io/milestone/2?closed=1).

The tasks are:

1. Create Logo

   I've iterated over a few branding ideas and have at least a placeholder to start work. Here is [a pdf](logo-ideas.pdf) of some of my initial ideas. I like the metaphor of a beehive working together for explaining the design system engineering process. It isn't a perfect metaphor, but I'll keep playing with it.

1. Create gh-pages

   I am deploying this site with the blog using GitHub Pages for hosting. The branch and code can be found [here](https://github.com/DesignSystemsEngineer/designsystemsengineer.github.io/tree/gh-pages).

1. Create newsletter with ConvertKit

   I've setup my ConvertKit account and prepped it for the newsletter.

1. Newsletter Signup Form

   I setup my newsletter signup form, but there's an issue with my billing I need to fix before I can add it to the site. I already have a ticket in to their support, but may need to switch services if they can't address the issue quickly enough.

1. Priminary Svelte setup

   This website is using Svelte and Sapper for the initial setup and blog. All the code is on the public [GitHub repo](https://github.com/DesignSystemsEngineer/designsystemsengineer.github.io/).

1. Write newsletter topics

   I'm aware that my topics are likely to change as I start writing the newsletter, so the most important thing I wanted to complete with this task was a list of seed topics.

   - Design tokens
     - More than name value pairs
     - Style Dictionary
     - CC Libraries
     - Google spreadsheet
     - Datastore
     - GraphQL interface
   - How to name a component
   - What is a design system?
   - Growing a design system
   - Scaling a design system
   - Design/Engineer collaboration
   - Themes
   - Scales
   - Platforms
   - Variants
   - States

1. Schedule Live Webinar

   I did not complete this task in time. I'm rethinking the webinars and how to best use them. I'll need to finish working out what I want to do before I can really plan it out.
