---
title: Final reflection
slug: final-reflection
summary: Project reflection
date: 2020-12-19
---

Being so close to finished with this capstone project, I'm enjoying the benefits of all the stress. At the same time, I don't see an end to my project. I need to find a sustainable and effective pace of creating content and publishing it. I still need to overcome my anxiety of sharing my ideas, and even harder, telling people they should pay me for them.

There were a few points of real failure for me. I had some ideas around using an existing UI kit, and it just wasn't working the way I thought it should. So I had to find a way to pick apart pieces that would be useful and start anew. Additionally, this semester was just terrible timing. It ended these two weeks with my six-year-old son testing positive for Covid. I am grateful that we had enough foresight to prepare and do online school for all of our kids. I'm thankful Harvard provides this program online. I'm thankful I've been able to work remotely for ten years, and my employer has reimbursed my tuition. Most of all, I'm honored to have such a supportive partner and family. I feel like I'm starting to give an acceptance speech, but getting through difficult things helps provide perspective. I genuinely feel privileged to have the support and opportunities provided to me.

There were times I hit a wall with either an idea I couldn't get to work in my tech stack or the pressures of the rest of life pulling me from the project.

Some all-nighters got bugs working that probably weren't the most important thing for the requirements in my rubric, but the quality of the content and the code matters. I worry about sending out something that teaches people bad practices. Luckily, I could always find the resources I needed to fix things and make the whole process feel retroactively beneficial.

Additionally, I've been so grateful for the people who were willing to talk with me for my user interviews. Part of me wishes I had done them earlier in my process, but I don't know if I would have had the correct mental framework to ask them the right questions or appreciate their answers fully. Even still, I have more to think about and research.

Lastly, I am immensely proud of the design system I've built. It's the first time I've ever made one from scratch and by myself. Ideally, I'd prefer to collaborate, and doing it solo has given me a greater appreciation for my team at Adobe.

I wanted to give a better tour of the project, so I recorded a video and have included it below.

I'm happy with what I've accomplished, and I am looking forward to continuing the work.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/og2J511ddyk" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
